three-two-one hey it's me Destin welcome
back to smarter every day today's
question is fascinating how hard can you
hit a golf ball that seems like a really
simple question but is very complex for
example think about this when a golf
club is swung and it comes in contact
with a ball at some relative velocity
there's an elastic collision that takes
place the ball squishes and then it uses
that stored energy to rebound off the
club well here's one way to rephrase the
question at what point does that ball no
longer return to its original shape it
goes from an elastic deformation to a
plastic deformation I'm not good at golf
but I thought a really fun place to
start investigating this problem is to
use the Phantom camera and see how hard
I can squish the ball oh yeah so for me
this is pretty decent contact but
obviously it's not hard enough so it's
time to move on to the happy gilmore
technique
[Applause]
I just hit the ball like behind me how
does it even work number one I can't
swing this club fast enough no matter
how much I happy gilmore and number two
I can't get good consistent contact with
the ball to try to solve this I'm
working with my buddy mark Rover he's a
youtuber and an engineer and we've
teamed up with Wix to actually build two
separate devices to try to solve our
problem if you don't know who Mark Rover
is I'm gonna need you to fix that right
now he's an awesome engineer who's good
at designing intricate devices that
answer complex questions in an awesome
way
Mark's the kind of guy that has stuff he
designed roving around on Mars doing
science right now the first video I
watched of Marx was a roadkill
experiment to see if people who were
more likely run over rubber Turtles or
rubber snakes you probably know Mark
from his more recent work he's the guy
who engineered the glitter bomb solution
to fight off porch pirates I'm bad at
golf and you're good at golf and I'm bad
at rockets that you're good at Rockets
I don't know you did the Mars rover
there's no Rockets on my hardware what
are you talking about it was like
hardware on your hardware yeah yeah okay
cool hi outsourced that we're gonna do
this let's go to some guys do this
anyway you should totally subscribe to
this channel because Mark does stuff
like this a rocket-powered
we'll wait no way
that's a cool shot right there dude
dude this is uh this is respectable this
is legit like the brush you get from
like an engineering achievement actually
working is like
it was an absolutely amazing project so
obviously go watch the whole video over
a Marx channel but even though we could
swing the club way faster than the pros
can we still didn't come close to the
mechanical limits of the golf ball
instead of hitting the ball with a club
we're going to hit the club with a ball
remember David from the vortex collision
video this time I've asked David to
build a vacuum cannon that can shoot a
golf ball hundreds of miles an hour
without using explosives here's how the
thing works the barrel is just barely
big enough for the golf ball to slide
inside so we push it all the way to the
back of the tube and we seal up both
ends if you pull a vacuum on the inside
of the tube nature of horrors a vacuum
so if you quickly vent one side to
atmosphere all the air will rush into
the pipe and it'll push the golf ball
down the tube this creates stupid fast
velocities we're talking hundreds of
miles an hour to make it fire even
faster than that we put a positive
pressure tank on the back side and we
pressurize it with air so we can fire
the golf ball at over 500 miles an hour
all right
Mark's about to see the device we
pressurized that up and then we have the
vacuum and the cylinder itself and then
we have the burst discs in between and
then once the hot wire melts the the
film then that pressurized air will run
in there and there's no there's no air
in here so there's no drag yeah that's
the big deal here right because without
this 40 psi you just have a potato gun
right right exactly but it's the fact
that there's no drag because that's like
what proportional to velocity square it
is yes that's where you get your massive
speed increase right exactly so to start
off we wanted to take the stiffness of
the club out of the equation by using
something that's pretty much rigid this
is all coming together
firstly just some candid then I saw the
anvil and I'm thinking where are we
gonna stand over here
if we get a vapor cloud that comes out
here this will strip that away and
hopefully the ball will get straight
through and then we'll hit right here in
the center of the anvil and record that
with the Phantom at what are we at a
hundred thousand frames per second
alright so 100 psi here ready for the
vacuum
[Music]
three two one the amount of compression
there I've never seen anything like that
I bet the back of the golf ball I bet
that's the weak part we then decided to
cut a slit in the ball and see if the
outer shell of the ball was what was
holding everything together yeah look at
it like it's like a little mouse is it
after that we decided to cut deep enough
to damage the inner structure of the
ball and then see what would happen
it's moving the table so all these
interesting interactions that we're
seeing play out on the golf ball that's
a result of an area of physics called
material science what we want to do is
we want to explore that a little bit by
having a little conversation about this
paperclip let me get this in the vise
here okay cool so you know that if you
were to push on a paperclip a certain
amount create a force it's going to bend
back to where it's supposed to be right
that's called elastic deformation what's
happening is the paperclip is storing
the energy that you're putting into it
and then it's going right back to where
it's supposed to be but you also know
that if you bend it a little too far
it's going to move and stay permanently
deformed
that's called plastic deformation
different materials have different
elastic and plastic curves for example
play-doh plastically the forms almost
immediately when force is applied here
you can see the difference between the
foam practice ball in a normal ball you
can see that the practice ball is
designed to absorb as much energy as
possible so you can practice your swing
without the balls leaving your yard or
knocking out a window I decided to shoot
both of these balls against glass at a
much slower velocity to not break it
just to see what happens at the exact
spot where it impacts if you play them
in sync you can see just how much faster
the golf ball rebounds off the glass
this is the magic of golf ball design
you want to absorb as much energy as
possible during the collision without
getting to the plastic zone and then you
want to release that energy by
efficiently and rapidly bouncing away
from guven around with this stuff we've
learned that golf ball impacts will
result in an elastic collision up to
about 300 miles an hour which is why it
was able to handle the rocket club
without any problems that was under 300
miles per hour but once you get up
around 400 or 500 miles an hour plastic
deformation occurs inside the golf ball
by the way that X at the end of the
graph that's the awesome spot that's
what we're trying to get to
[Music]
that's crazy dad the vacuum cannon can't
quite get these modern golf balls up to
the failure point so good do that with
an old ball they get a splatter you
think yeah I don't think an old ball can
withstand that so where did this come
from River Falls house
it says 1962 through 1987 where dated 25
years I have no idea what that means but
mechanically it should be very different
[Music]
we now understand how golf balls work
but we don't understand the mechanical
limits of a driver there's only one way
to figure this out and that is to shoot
a golf ball have five hundred miles an
hour against a driver
[Music]
if it was not what I do look at that
[Applause]
jeez means what oh look at the clubface
[Music]
okay so we're gonna do another shot but
mark had an idea to put an anvil behind
the golf club here but immediately
behind it we have the anvil and the idea
is that instead of this thing moving
back because it's transferring momentum
into the club we're just gonna make
mechanical deformation the only way to
absorb the energy how amazing to be able
to embeds it way back here but it feels
like it's not any more likely it's gonna
come and bounce back out but did
whatever get trophies that would be
awesome
[Music]
okay it's marker over he can't make a
video without using watermelon
destroying water that's his thing we get
a golf ball going like stupid miles an
hour but we do agree it's gonna go
through the water man okay the question
is does it go through the tarp on the
backside
[Applause]
[Music]
there is no chunk larger than like two
inches oh my goodness this watermelon
where so it came out of the Canon
through a watermelon through a tarp the
removing blanket hit that and then
somehow bounced over here in this bag
there's watermelon on the ceiling
outside inelastic collision alright I
hope you enjoyed this collaboration
between mark and I we asked Wix if they
would sponsor this video collab for us
and they were like yeah without even
knowing very much the brief was like two
side pockets in golf and like I don't
even think the vacuum can was a part of
the special yeah yeah so we had to step
it up to make this happen so big thanks
to Wix wakes is a really good way to
make a website do anything you want I
have one for all the builds on my
channel and including my workbench it's
really clean yeah that's the thing it's
it's very clean you can grab one of tons
of templates and quickly make a really
nice website even if you're not that
great at graphic design I have created a
website have you yeah I'm seeing this
it's basically an homage to marker over
and all the reasons you subscribe
because he's been approaching the
subscriber numbers for smarter every day
for a long time now but I want to be the
reason that you finally passed me cuz
it's gonna happen anyway yeah so you'd
be like exactly what do you think it's
on the website for reasons people should
subscribe just pictures of my ads pretty
much so Wix calm slash should go slash
martyr no joke though I did thinker cons
website on Wix calm did you know that I
did not the fact that we made such a
clean awesome looking website on Wix got
people really interested in think akan
because it's legit I mean you can tell
when you look at the website was a great
looking website they got even texted you
about it well yes the aesthetic of it
it's really nice that was Wix so if you
have a personal brand that you want to
get your name out there and get
something out there on the web Wix is a
great way to do that go to wix.com slash
go slash smarter and you can start your
website today a big thanks to more
for coming out this was a blast so go
check out his channel marker over all
kinds of builds engineering stuff a lot
more watermelon carnage than smarter
every day this is true so go check that
out
marker over on YouTube that's how to do
that yeah I'll leave a link down in the
description you can check out my website
on recent you subscribe to mark but I
think you know why you should subscribe
to my it's a big deal anyway I'm Destin
you're getting smarter every month oh
wait
[Laughter]